[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> In times of the
greatest adversity,
the greatest challenge,
the greatest fear,
the greatest horror, it's
possible to find the greatest
human being you've ever been.
It comes when we call
for it, because it's
part of who we are.
And when we're willing
to call for it,
it matches the mountain
that's in front of us.
Every time.
In my life, I've known courage.
I've known it was there.
And I've known when it's gone.
It's gone when we
feel discouraged.
It's gone when we don't
know the way through,
when we feel like retreating,
when sadness, or grief,
or overwhelm, or fear seems
to loom larger than anything
in the whole wide world.
But our heart can hold all of
that and still exhibit courage.
Because courage
comes from the heart.
Courage is the most bold
and powerful expression
of the heart.
Courage is the
heart at its finest,
leading us into realms of being
that we didn't know existed.
We all have it and
we all express it,
because it's who we are and
it's who you are right now.
In the face of anything, just
call for it and it'll be there.
It happened to me.
I was in New York and
my son was deathly ill.
He was almost gone.
His breathing was labored.
His heartbeat was sketchy.
There were doctors around him,
but all of them were interns.
No one seemed to be in charge.
He was getting
weaker and weaker.
His liver collapsed.
And then his lungs.
And I looked in his eyes,
and he looked at me,
asking me with those eyes to
stop what was happening to him.
The fear was still there.
My heart was pounding.
My hands were sweaty.
It was still chaotic.
I didn't know who to
talk to or what to say,
but I felt a kind of power
that was beyond anything
I've ever known.
The will of a mother to have
her son live became who I was.
The strength in my body was
like that of a super woman.
I felt a divine energy
flood through my fingers
as I touched his hand.
And through my eyes,
as I looked into his,
I put my head on his heart.
I could hear it.
It was still beating.
And I pulled for
that to recover.
In the case of the courage
I exhibited in the crisis
with my son, I know he fought
with every cell of his body
to make it across
the line to life.
I know there were medical people
who did miraculous things.
But I also know that the
courage that came from my heart
had an intensity and a power
that I had never known before.
When I look back on that time,
I realize that courage is always
there, waiting to be used.
When we're afraid, courage
embraces that fear.
It holds that fear
in a container that's
greater and deeper
and more powerful,
because it puts
its arms around it
and lifts it up as an offering.
Now, I know that no
matter what happens to me
and no matter what
happens to you,
if you're willing to call
on your heart to bring you
the courage that you
need to get through it,
it will always be there.
But it's infinite.
It's eternal.
And its strength is unbounded.
Nothing is greater
than the courage
to live life, the
courage to save life,
the courage to
contribute to life,
and the courage to
make a difference.
My wish for you is that
you find the courage
that you need no matter how
difficult, no matter how
crushing.
Know that you can
never be crushed.
You can never be brutalized.
Cruelty can never really touch
the heart of who you are.
You have the courage
to meet that adversity
and pull yourself through.
Who you are is a being that's
filled with light, that's
filled with kindness, that's
filled with strength, that's
filled with love, and
that is made of courage.
Each of us has it.
Call on it and it'll be there.
Because it's the heart of
the heart of who you are.
[MUSIC CONTINUES]